---
title: "XR-015: Privacy and Permissions"
description: "XR-015: Privacy and Permissions."
ms.date: 03/18/2019
ms.topic: article
keywords: windows 10, uwp, games, xbox, xbox live, policies
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# XR-015: Privacy and Permissions

Titles must not transmit user data or allow communication over Xbox Live when the user's privacy & online safety settings do not allow it.

Titles meet this XR by retrieving data from Xbox Live services. If the title uses its own services, it must check the user's privacy permissions at the beginning of a session or when a new user joins the session. For user-initiated scenarios outside of sessions, titles meet this requirement by checking privacy prior to displaying the user's data and before performing the action. The following list of privacy settings is available for titles to check:

| Permission name |Description |
|-------------------|-|---------------|
|CommunicateUsingText | Check whether or not the user can send a message with text content to the target user. |
| CommunicateUsingVideo |Check whether or not the user can communicate using video with the target user. | |
|CommunicateUsingVoice |Check whether or not the user can communicate using voice with the target user. | |


## More Information

Prior to allowing any activity to occur, titles must also check the Xbox Live service for privileges, as stated in [XR-045: Xbox Live and Account Privileges](XR045.md).


### Cross-network play

Titles that support cross-network play and communication between Xbox Live and non Xbox Live players need to check communication permissions prior to allowing communication between those players.  

Titles check communication settings for cross-network players by using `CrossNetworkUser`,  which acts as a replacement for the XUID (see XDK).

Based on Xbox Live privacy settings, cross-network players will return a result of `allowed` only when the Xbox Live user’s permissions are set to allow communication with all cross-network players.
Titles which support a cross-network friends list can check communication between cross-network friends by using `crossNetworkFriend` as a replacement for the XUID.

Based on Xbox Live privacy settings:

*  `CrossNetworkUser` will return a result of `allowed` only when the Xbox Live user’s permissions are set to allow communication with all cross-network players.

*  `crossNetworkFriend` will return `allowed` when the Xbox Live user’s permissions are set to allow communication with all or cross-network friends only.


## Recommended Test Cases


### 015-01 User Communication
  

#### Configuration

Create a set of profiles with a combination of different settings for the communication permissions outlined in the permissions table above.  


#### Test Steps

1. On Device 1, sign in to a profile that has been configured with a specific set of permissions per the Configuration.

2. On Device 2, sign in to a profile that has no communication restrictions.

3. On both devices, launch the title and attempt to communicate using text, voice, and video in every location supported.

4. Repeat Steps [1] – [3] for all profiles from the Configuration step.  


#### Expected Result

Titles must check the Xbox Live service for a user’s permissions regarding privacy and online safety-related actions before completing certain actions in the title when communicating over Xbox Live.  


#### Pass Examples

1. The title prevents the user from communicating over Xbox Live when that specific method of communication is configured to be blocked.  


#### Fail Examples

1. The user is able to communicate over Xbox Live when that specific method of communication is configured to be blocked.
