---
title: Configuring Rich Presence strings
description: Configuring Rich Presence strings in Partner Center.
kindex: Configuring Rich Presence strings
kindex: rich presence
ms.assetid: 7b08d46d-d3aa-42eb-93f2-ecd9338fccea
ms.topic: article
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.date: 04/04/2017
---








# Configuring Rich Presence strings

Partner Center enables configuring Rich Presence strings.


## Strings

For your Rich Presence Strings, you must define the string-sets.
Each string-set should be given a friendly name to be used as an identifier.

Each string-set created must contain a group of strings, localized appropriately for the locales in which the title will be released.

In addition to the localized strings, a culture-neutral string must also be supplied.
This string is used if a request made for a locale that isn't given.

Each string-set can also make use of in-game data by parameterizing the strings to further enhance them.
A string-set can have as many parameters as you wish, so long as the resulting strings do not go over character limitations, per [Policies and limits for Rich Presence strings](../concepts/live-presence-limits.md).


## Enumerations

The enumerations described below are defined through the Events from Xbox Live Player Data.


## Statistics

You can use numerical statistic values in your Rich Presence strings.
For example, in a shooter, maybe you want the Rich Presence string to show how many kills the player has gotten so far.

The configuration just needs to show that the parameter should be replaced by the "Kill Count" statistic.
The "Kill Count" statistic was created through the Common Schema Eventing system through to Xbox Live Player Data, and must be defined through statistics configuration.

Then when the string is read by another user, the service will go and retrieve the most up-to-date value for the "Kill Count" statistic allowing the string to always be up-to-date.


## State

You can also choose to use statistics that represent actual state values in your Rich Presence strings.
For example, in a racing game, you could use a Rich Presence string to show which car the player is currently driving, or which map or track the player is racing on.

There are two steps to configuring state information:

1. For state information, define enumerations for any in-game strings. For example, if you have five maps in your game and want those maps to be part of your Rich Presence strings, then the five maps need to be enumerated into localized strings as well.

2. Link the enumerations to statistics. Here, again, the service will retrieve the most up-to-date value from Player Data by looking up the value of the statistic. It then determines which enumeration value the statistic translates to.


## Example Game

For the rest of the example, suppose you are working on the latest bucket-kicking game, and you want to create a statistic for each type of bucket kicked, and display the statistics using Rich Presence strings.

Suppose the game rules are the following:

* Bucket types are: wooden buckets, silver buckets, and golden buckets.

* Locations are: the Mountains, the Desert, and the Beach.

* Once a bucket is kicked, it shatters, so you have to always be searching for more buckets.

* Some buckets require you to have special gear to successfully kick that bucket; for example, you need a boot strong enough to withstand a kick.

* The game includes a multiplayer mode as well, so if enough players are trying to kick the bucket at the same time, you don't need the appropriate boot.

Rich Presence string configuration looks like the following for this game.


## Configuring Statistics for Rich Presence

To use a statistic generated by Xbox Live Player Data in your Rich Presence Strings, the service needs to know the names of the statistics.


## Enumeration Configuration example

Here is an example of defining a couple of enumerations.

1. First, we create an enumeration for the maps in the game. The game has three maps, which get a friendly name so that we can refer to them easily.

2. Then for each locale, we create a localized string for that map name. Notice that there is an overall default localization as well a culture-neutral one.

3. Then we look at the weapons in the game. There are three weapons in my game, where they friendly names and localized strings. We do this for all of the enumerations.

Enumeration | Related Statistic | Friendly Name | Locale | String
----------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------ | ----
Map | CurrentMap | Map_Mountains | default | Mountains
 |  |  |  | en | Mountains
 |  |  |  | en-US | Mountains
 |  |  |  | en-GB | Mountains
 |  |  |  |  de | Gebirge
 | |  |  | etc |
 | |  | Map_Desert | default | Desert
 |  ||  |  en | Desert
 |  ||  |  en-US | Desert
 |  ||  |   en-GB | Desert
 |  ||  |  de | Wuste
 |  ||  |  etc |
| |  |  Map_Beach | default | Beach
 ||    |  | en | Beach
 ||    |  | en-US | Beach
 ||    |  | en-GB | Beach
 ||    |  | de | Strand
 | |   |  | etc |
Boot | CurrentWeapon | Boot_Light | default | Light
 |  ||  |  en | Light
 |  ||  |   en-US | Light
 |  ||  |   en-GB | Light
 |  ||  |   de | Leicht
 |  ||  |   etc  |
 |  | |  Boot_Medium | default | Medium
 |  |  |  | en | Medium
 |  |  |  | en-US | Medium
 |  |  |  | en-GB | Medium
 |  |  |  | de | Mittel
 |  |  |  | etc |
 |  | |  Boot_Strong | default | Strong
 |  |  |  | en | Strong
 |  |  |  | en-US | Strong
 |  |  |  | en-GB | Strong
 |  |  |  | de | Stark
 |  ||  | etc


## String Configuration example

Now that the enumerations and statistics have been defined, you can create your strings.

In this example table below, the first column is a friendly name to help with referencing one string-set versus another.
In this example, we've decided to use the string "playingMap" for the first string-set, and then "totalKicked" for the second string-set, then "multiplayer" for the third.


**Locale-string pairs**

The next two columns go in together.
These are the locale-string pairs for the Rich Presence string.

In the first example, we want to use the English string "Playing on {0}".
The {0} token will get replaced by a value.

We then localize the string in for other locales.

Just as in the enumerations, there must be a default, as well as culture neutral strings to be used in the case that a user is using a locale that you haven't specified a locale-string pair.
The locales used for enumerations must match the locales for your strings.


**Parameters to construct a string**

The last column is for the parameters used to fill in the blanks in the Rich Presence string.

If you want the Presence Service to look up the value of the parameter in the Statistics service, you must use the Stat Name to refer to the parameter here.
Using your Stats in your strings will allow you to set your string and then not worry about it.

If your string has the map name in it, and you're using the `CurrentMap` Stat to fill in the blank, then the service will update your string appropriately, as your players travel from Map to Map in the game.
If you do not use statistics in your Rich Presence strings, no parameters can be specified.

In the example below, we want to use the current map generated by statistics in the first string and then the `BucketsKicked` statistic in the second string.

The third example doesn't include any parameters.
The string is defined on its own; it doesn't refer to any statistics.

Friendly Name | Locale | String | Parameters
--- | --- | --- | ---
playingMap | default | Playing on map:{0} | CurrentMap
 |  | en | Playing on map:{0} |
 |  | en-US | Playing on map:{0} |
 |  | en-GB | Playing on map:{0} |
 |  | de | Spielt auf Karte: {0} |
 |  | etc. | |
totalKicked | default | Kicked {0} Buckets! | BucketsKicked
 |  | en | Kicked {0} Buckets! |
 |  | en-US | Kicked {0} Buckets! |
 |  | en-GB | Kicked {0} Buckets! |
 |  | de | {0} Eimer getreten! |
 |  | etc. | |
multiplayer | default | Playing multiplayer |
 |  | en | Playing multiplayer |
 |  | en-US | Playing multiplayer |
 |  | en-GB | Playing multiplayer |
 |  | de | Spielt Mehrspieler |
 |  | etc. | 

There is no limit on how many strings you can create, but you must have at least one string for your title.

"BucketsKicked" is just a number that can get replaced into your string.
"CurrentMap" is an example of a statistic where the string comes from the enumeration.
When your title sets Rich Presence to one of these strings, we use the configuration to know what parameters are needed.
